---
layout: recipe
title: "Lemon & Cranberry Buttermilk Scones"
subtitle: "Buttery and crumbly with a hint of sweet"
date: 2016-02-10 12:00:00
author: "Picky Laurel"
header-img: "img/posts/scone.jpg"
tags:
 - baking
recipe_type: "Gluten-free"
servings: 4
cook_time: 45 mins
sidebar_image: "scone2.jpg"
---
 The recipe has no butter –gasp– a scone made without butter is not a scone! We ran out so I had to use cold coconut oil. Since the oil has a low melting point of 76º it's very easy to cut the hardened oil into the dry flour with your hands. The more you work with the oil the softer it becomes. The sharp flavors of lemon and buttermilk are a delicious combination and the coconut oil makes for a perfectly light and crumbly texture!

### Scones

#### Ingredients

- 1 cup white rice flour (mochi)
- 1/2 cup bob’s brown rice flour
- 1/2 cup coconut flour
- 3 Tbs white sugar
- 2 1/4 tsp baking powder
- 1/4 tsp salt
- 1/2 tsp tapioca flour
- 3/4 cup coconut oil (cold)
- 1/4 cup sweetened dried cranberries
- 1/2 cup buttermilk
- 2 eggs
- 1tsp vanilla
- 1 lemon- juice + rind
- 1 egg
- 2 Tbs Raw Sugar


#### Directions


1. Sift flours together flours, salt, sugar and baking powder. You can sub in 2 cups of a generic gluten-free baking flour here if you'd like.
2. Cut in the coconut oil (hard and cold) with your hands. The oil will start to softened as you work it into a course meal. Add dried cranberries and fold together
3. Stir together wet ingredients separately: buttermilk, 2 eggs, vanilla, zest of half the lemon and juice of half the lemon
4. Add the wet ingredients into the dry and stir. Move to a surface where you can gently knead the dough.
5. Make a 1” thick round and slice into wedges. Use a spatula to move the wedges onto a cookie sheet lined with parchment
6. In a small bowl, whisk together the egg and zest the other half of the lemon. Brush onto the tops of the scones. sprinkle the raw sugar on the tops of the scones and sprinkle some zest on top too
