---
layout: recipe
title: "Easy Pesto from Scratch"
subtitle: "Fragrant fresh basil and sun-dried tomato sauce"
date: 2016-01-18 12:00:00
author: "Picky Laurel"
header-img: "img/posts/DSCF2679_.jpg"
tags:
 - Entrée
recipe_type: "Gluten-free, Vegetarian and Nut-free"
servings: 4
cook_time: 20min
sidebar_image: "DSCF2673_crop3.jpg"
---
When first switching to a GF diet, the rubbery glue-like pasta available was not very exciting. We're lucky these days to have an abundance of delicious pastas to choose from. One of my favorites is [RP's Fresh Gluten-free Linguini](http://www.rpspasta.com/retail-pasta/fresh-gluten-free-pasta/gluten-free-linguini/) sold at Whole Foods. It's especially delicious with my homemade pesto sauce. I like to use capers, lemon and lots of garlic which makes the fragrant sauce light and refreshing.

### Easy Pesto from Scratch  

#### Ingredients

 - 1 cup fresh basil
 - 1/3 cup good olive oil
 - Juice of 1/2 lemon
 - 1/4 cup grated parmesan  
 - 3 Tbs capers + juice  
 - 2 tsp table salt
 - 5 cloves of garlic
 - handful of sun-dried tomatoes
 - 1 pkg mushrooms

#### Garnish:

 - cherry tomatoes
 - capers
 - fresh basil leaves
 - parmesan cheese


#### Directions

 Read pasta directions, it usually cooks fast so start the pesto first. Rinse and tear pieces of basil into a food processor with a splash of olive oil. Blend until most of the basil is chopped. Add in lemon, parmesan, capers + juice, salt, garlic, sun-dried tomatoes and the remaining olive oil. Blend until desired texture and add more olive oil/salt to taste.

 Boil a large pot of water and add pasta with a pinch of salt and olive oil to keep from sticking. While water is coming to a boil, slice mushrooms. Add fresh pasta to boiling water. While pasta is cooking, sautée mushrooms in olive oil and black pepper.Remove pasta from heat when it's still al dente and strain. Place pasta back in pot and stir in pesto + mushrooms. Plate with pamesan, capers, fresh cherry tomatoes and fresh basil. Enjoy with a glass of Santa Barbara Pinot Noir.  
